All right guys so I know the last video is kind of long but I wanted to get the H team L and the base
styling out of the way so we can focus on the menu so let's head over to our version which looks like
this.
We just have a checkbox up here and the check box has a class of toggle or if you remember so we have
class of toddler menu wrap is going to cover it's going to surround everything OK including the overlay
so menu wrap surrounds all of this everything.
So let's start with that.
So we're going to go to menu CSX and let's add class menu dash wrap and we're gonna set that to position
fixed.
So when we have our overlay open and we scroll down I don't we don't want this to scroll down like we
don't want the the menu to just go out of focus or out of the viewport we want it to stay where it is.
So we want to position it fixed at top 0 left 0.
So basically its natural position we want it to stay there and we want to give it a z index of 1 so
that it's always on top.
We want the menu to be visible.
So we want it to be on top of any other content.
All right.
So I save that.
Now you can see that it's fixed in that white area is now gone because it's just sitting on top of anything
else that we have on the page.
Now let me try and explain what's going to happen.
We need to style the checkbox itself.
Now the checkbox is going to sit on top of the actual hamburger class.
This right here we wanted to sit on top of it.
However we want it to be invisible so we want to set the opacity to 0 0.
And the reason that we need the checkbox is just for its state because we can set it to checked and
we can actually grab on to that within the style and we can create our overlay when it's checked and
when it's unchecked we can bring it out so that the the the checkbox is just for functionality the hamburger
class is what we're gonna use to create the actual square and then the D INNER div will be using to
create the lines inside.
OK.
Hopefully that makes sense and close that up.
So let's grab the menu wrap and then the toddler which is the actual checkbox input and we need to position
it correctly so we're gonna say position absolute and we want to set it to the top corner so top 0 left
0.
And we're gonna set let's see we're gonna set the z index to 2 because we always want it to be on top.
It's gonna be invisible we won't see it but it will still be there and we'll still be able to check
it and we're gonna set the cursor to pointer so that when we hover over it we have a pointer and let's
set the width to say 50 pixels in height we'll do 50 pixels.
And if I save that you can see now it's positioned absolute right in the corner.
However we don't want it to show so we're gonna say opacity and let's set that to zero.
OK so now it's not there but it is there.
All right.
And you can see I'm actually checking it right now when I hover over it the cursor goes over it and
it's gonna be 50 pixels around all right.
Now the hamburger class we're going to we're going to grab on to that next.
So let's say hamburger and we're going to position it right in the same spot.
So absolute top zero left zero.
And we're gonna set this Zi index to one.
OK.
We want it to be under the checkbox and we're also going to set a width and height.
We're gonna do 60 pixels so high.
And you can mess with the sizes if you want.
I mean you don't have to follow the exact parameters that I am but loops let's see we get width height.
Let's set padding to one room and then the background.
I'm going to set to the primary color.
Now I just want to show you real quick if I do like background black and save.
We get our little square here and we can actually check it.
I'm clicking and it's checking that input.
OK.
But we're seeing the hamburger class here now.
I'm setting it to the primary colors so far.
Dash dash primary.
We're not going to get the little drop down in B.S. code because the variables are not set in this file
their sentence style file.
So it's a primary color.
And if I save you'll see that it has the primary color and it's see through it it's translucent because
of the primary the primary color is an RGA and the opacity is one point seventy five.
So that's what we're seeing here I mean if you don't want it if you want to set it to a different color
you don't want it to be translucent.
Then of course you can change the background to whatever you want.
Now I'm also going I want to center on a display this as a flex because the div inside is going to take
care of the lines.
I want to center everything so when a display flexed and then a line the items to the center and let's
also justify the content to the center and we should be good.
All right.
So that's basically the the hamburger the outside wrapper of the hamburger.
Now we want to do the lines.
OK.
And remember there isn't.
There's a div inside of the hamburger div.
So what we want to do is set this to be a line and then we're going to use before and after to insert
the top and bottom lines.
OK if that makes sense.
So let's go back to menu CSX and I'll actually put a comment here.
Let's say hamburger line just so you know what does what.
Because I know a lot of times when we look at complicated CSX is you don't know you know what is actually
doing what.
So I want to try to explain that as we go along.
So we're going to take the menu wrap and we want the hamburger class and then we want the immediate
div and we're going to set it to position relative.
And then we're going to set flex to none and set the width to 100 percent.
OK.
Now the height I'm going to set to two pixels because remember we're creating the line here.
We're creating the middle line of the hamburger menu.
So I'm going to give it a background of white.
I want it to be white and let's say display flex.
And we want to set a line
items to center and justify content to center.
So let's save that and you can see we get our middle line.
OK.
Now obviously we need to more we need one above it or I should say before it and after it.
So we're gonna use the before and after pseudo selectors.
So let's say hamburger lines I will say top and bottom lines.
So we're going to take menu wrap.
Hamburger and let's say we want the div that we want to do before.
So when you use the before sudo selector and we don't we're going to do the same exact styling for after.
So when I copy this and then we're gonna do after and it might turn if you're using V as code it might
turn into double colon.
Basically does the same thing a single Colon is just a shortcut for that.
So since we're using before and after we need to put in content but we're not actually inserting content.
Let's set this to position
absolute K and it's absolute to the relative div the actual div.
Right.
And then let's set the z index to one and let's say top say negative 10 pixels so I'm going to move
it up 10 pixels and we want to set the width to 100 percent.
Just like the the standard div appear and then we're going to set the height to the same thing.
So two pixels and for a background I'm just gonna say inherit which will be white.
It's going to inherit the this white here.
So if I save that you'll see that now we have a line up above.
Now what's happening is both the before and after.
It's basically creating both lines the before and after however they're in the same exact spot.
We just said top negative 10 pixels.
So what I want to do now is just take the after one OK.
Because this is this should all be the same for both.
However the after we just want to position it below so I'm simply going to take the top value and I'm
going to set it to 10 pixels and save.
And now that brings it down 10 pixels.
OK.
So hopefully that makes sense.
And now we have our our hamburger menu.
All right.
So just to reiterate what we've done here because I know that it might be a little confusing.
We set the menu wrap to be positioned fixed and start at the top and top the top left corner.
So menu wrap covers everything even the entire overlay here.
And then the toddler is the checkbox which we position did we set a width and height and then we basically
made it disappear.
It's still there.
You can see we can still check it.
So right now I'm actually checking it if I click anywhere on this.
It's checking it but it is opacity 0.
In fact if I change this back to 1 and we save you can see that it's still there.
All right.
We're going to set that back to zero and then the hamburger class is what takes care of this actual
box right here.
OK.
Which we have set the primary color you kind of care.
Yeah I mean it's very hard to see because it's it's it's it's translucent and it it's almost the same
color as the background but it is there.
And then the inner div we took and we create basically created a line.
So we set with to 100 percent.
So goes all the way across.
Aside from the padding and the height to two pixels so the line is two pixel then we took the before
and after pseudo selectors and we created two more lines for those and set it to be up here the top
negative 10 pixels and then we took just the after and we changed top to ten pixels so that it got pushed
down.
OK.
So that's that's what's going on here and hopefully that makes sense.
So I think that's gonna be it for this video in the next one I want to start to take care of the rotation
when we click on this.
I want to transform it and use rotate so that we can actually more fit into an X. case we're going to
do that in the next video.